good morning folks you're watching
plasma rain on the Sun we first shared
something like this last July it was on
the opposite limb that time nASA
released a few articles about that event
just a few weeks ago we'll come back to
this the evolution of satellite
technology ever more detailed
observations and while the article title
focuses on the timeline of the universe
the most important part is that other
certain basic assumptions about the
universe will have to change this is an
excellent historical look at new
evidence on mega volcanic blasts took
them a while to put it together because
their evidence is spread from Jersey to
Africa how much better is the new
Landsat satellite this much better
courtesy of NASA's Earth Observatory
Canary Islands quake swarm update this
is where I said the rumbling had stopped
two days ago
there were a few more that day but
yesterday she picked right back up like
it didn't like being ignored and it is
continuing today chemical spill a few
days ago isn't enough to make the news
unless it causes a fish kill which it is
believed to have done the byron nuclear
station did a manual shutdown of a
reactor to fix a cooling pump
malfunction they say there's no danger
Australia the severe weather continues
and yesterday when I told you you need
to be wary I cannot say I expected
tornadoes and gale force sustained winds
you got more coming meanwhile New
Zealand drought has spread to the South
Island say it with me now
big blue counterclockwise low picking up
Mediterranean moisture off the leading
East edge and depositing it as she
crosses the European continent
keep an eye the major North American
watch zone is moving into the Gulf
states the eastern convergence of air
masses will bring severe weather through
the weekend and you will need to keep an
eye on local warnings more weather
images will be coming at the end
switching the space weather cosmic ray
density is elevated like yesterday but
steadier and still within safe range the
lone earth-facing eruption barely
deserves the title yesterday it was a
mini filament release but there was
significant activity elsewhere you'll
remember the polar radiation event we
had a few days ago
Earth's magnetic connection to the Sun
was surged and it delivered energy
directly to us well let's say you're
lucky enough to catch a flare in the act
this D region absorption prediction map
is good for something else
shows the radio blackout areas from
x-ray radiation of solar flares indeed
that is actually the more primary
purpose of this it's just easier for us
to catch long duration energetic events
than these brief flares this one hit M
range and did cause minor radio signal
degradation for a brief period this
flare came from the departing active
regions the ones we focused on yesterday
please folks don't be shy share what you
know the newbies aren't going back to
watch 700 videos of mine to see that the
Sun has been mysteriously favoring her
flares to face away from our planet now
this is partly good we don't want a
major eruption our way but earth does
need moderate flaring for atmospheric
equilibrium as Earth's has been
shrinking too much without this aspect
of solar energy the aftermath of this
was the plasma rain now if you are
thinking hey wasn't the earth footprint
over there too well yeah might have
began the day close to the limb and when
the flares began I was indeed worried
about another surge through our
connection but the footprint had already
begun to shift away from the limb around
the backside it's now more than 10
degrees from that flare location you can
see it trying to pull back to the
Earth's side with four connection points
compared to yesterday's three right in
the middle of all of that was where we
got the flare onto the Umbra field
nothing has changed in my analysis from
yesterday the nicely formed field bulges
have a gap on the left turning in now
and this opening in the solar atmosphere
is a magnetic monster known as a coronal
hole and it is the primary earthquake
factor it has taken major uptick
forecasting from 75 percent in 2012 to
90% coverage of significant quake
occurrences in 2013 with a 100 percent
success rate on the actual watch periods
darker and darker on the left he or she
comes and while Uranus aligns with Mars
as we see it we absolutely still are in
a minor watch period looking out for one
or two possible quakes over the next 36
hours due to the planets and this week's
energetic flux but the big coronal hole
will arrive two days before this
grouping of conjunctions at month's end
the Umbra field will dictate the exact
timing but consider a major earthquake
up tech watch to be on your doorstep
eyes open no fear at 6:30 a.m. Eastern
Time and that's the news be safe
everyone
you